As a developer, your
main task will be to
write code to suit
business needs.
That code will have to go
through what's
called refactoring.
This means that you
rewrite or rework the code
to make it easier to manage
or to run more efficiently.
Refactoring is a standard part
of the software
development cycle.
Making code easier to manage,
maybe straightforward,
but what about
making it faster or
making it perform better?
To determine how to make code
faster or perform better,
you must be able to measure it.
Code is measured
by time and space.
Time is measured by
how long it takes
and space is about how
much memory it uses.
Big O notation has
different complexities
or categories ranging from
horrible to excellent.
It's used to measure an
algorithm's efficiency
in terms of time and space.
Let's explore the different
kinds of time complexities.
First, constant time.
This is an algorithm that
will always run under
the same time and space
regardless of the size.
Take a dictionary, for example.
To get the value of an item,
you need to have the key.
The key is a direct
pointer to the value
and does not require any
iteration is to find it.
It's considered constant.
Second is a linear
time algorithm.
This will grow depending
on the size of the input.
For example, if I have an array
of numbers with a range of 100,
it will run very fast.
But if it's increased
to a million,
it will take a lot
longer to complete.
The size in this case,
affects the running
time of the code.
Third, a logarithmic
time algorithm refers to
the running time of the inputs
against the number
of operations.
I can take a linear
approach to try
to find a number out of 100.
Let's say the number is 97.
In a linear equation,
it will take 96 iterations
before it's found.
This is because it
must iterate through
each item one by one until
it finds the target value.
Using a binary search,
I can drastically cut down
the iterations and find it
on the seven iterations.
This is measured by
logarithmic time.
The binary search works by
splitting the list
into two parts
each time to check
if a target is
less than or greater than one.
Fourth, quadratic time refers to
a linear operation of
each value of the
input data squared.
This is often a nested list,
as in this for loop.
This for loop is considered
quadratic time as
the outer loop will need to
iterate in a linear
way 10 times.
But it also has to iterate
the inner loop the
same 10 times for each
single outer loop.
This means it's
total iterations are
10 times 10, which is 100.
Fifth and last is
exponential time,
which is an algorithm that
doubles with each iteration.
The Fibonacci sequence is
a prime example of this.
Refactoring code
can be a big task,
but understanding algorithmic
complexity and how it's
calculated makes it
easier to optimize code.
Now that you know
about constant linear,
logarithmic, quadratic,
and exponential time,
you're one step closer to your
goal of being a developer.